# Welcome!

## Professional Self-Assessment 

The completion of the Bachelors of Computer Science program and development of this ePortfolio has helped me to showcase my strengths, shape my professional goals and values, and prepare to enter the field of computer science. Throughout the program, I have completed various projects exploring different areas and skillsets in computer science, each of which serve as examples of my abilities. A few projects of interest are noted here: 

In CS-255, System Analysis and Design, I worked on the DriverPass system for a driver’s education company that provides in-person and online education for driving students. The requested system was intended to handle in-person drive scheduling, payments, and student access to online course content. Various other requirements made the process of designing this system very complex. To design the system, I familiarized myself with the requirements, mapped out the user needs, created a high-level design of the components and their interactions, evaluated each solution on an individual basis as well as their interactions with one another, and solidified the plans with diagrams. These diagrams would be very useful in communicating the proposed design of the system to both team members and stakeholders. This, along with the extensive communication with stakeholders throughout the course of the project, allowed me to showcase my strengths in both collaborating in a team environment and communicating with stakeholders.  

In CS-300, Data Structures and Algorithms, I worked on a set of projects for a university that wanted to allow users to upload unsorted lists of courses that included information about those courses like the course IDs, names and prerequisites to be stored in a way that would be efficient for later use. The solution that I developed took the list of courses as input, validated for containing the necessary information, and loaded into a binary search tree in random order. This allowed the users to search individual courses or print an ordered list of all courses very efficiently. In the planning and design phase of this project, I analyzed the runtimes of different possible solutions, including vectors, hash maps, and binary search trees. While all were possible to use, I decided that the binary search tree would be best suited for this task. This project allowed me to showcase my strengths in understanding, comparing, and implementing data structures and algorithms.  

In CS-340, Client/Server Development, I worked on a dashboard that displays Austin Animal Shelter Outcomes data in an informative way for the client Gazioso Salvare. I created a NoSQL database with MongoDB and a Python CRUD module for handling calls to the database. On the front-end, I created a dashboard which allows the user to select the type of data they would like to see and have it displayed as a table, pie chart, and geolocation chart. This project helped me to showcase my database skills, specifically my ability to create complex queries and organize databases in useful ways.  

In CS-305, Software Security, I worked as a security consultant for the client Artemis Financial. They were seeking guidance on the secure handling of client data and financial information. This project involved reviewing their app's codebase to find and address security vulnerabilities and refactoring the code to add some security features. I decided on the appropriate encryption algorithm cipher to deploy for Artemis Financials' purposes, implemented it, and tested that it worked by generating a checksum in the browser successfully over HTTPS. The codebase was then edited again using secure coding practices and patterns and retested for new vulnerabilities. After the initial vulnerability check, I reviewed and documented the existing vulnerabilities. I kept these in mind when implementing my initial changes and adding new features. I was able to compare these results with the results of later vulnerability checks to ensure that my code didn't add any new vulnerabilities to the app. This project allowed me to showcase many different security skills.  

The completion of this program has also helped to develop my professional goals and values. I have a better understanding of many different areas within the field of computer science. The addition of both a Concentration in Information Security and a Minor in Applied Mathematics has supported this exploration of topics. I am leaving this program with both the experience and confidence to work with SQL, NoSQL, Python, Java, C++, Kotlin, GitHub, various information security and networking tools, R for machine learning, AI, and much more. This has already been effective in expanding my career opportunities, as I have used the knowledge and confidence gained through my coursework to develop an Android app for my company that helps automate repetitive, time-consuming processes. Upon the completion of this project, my manager decided that my skillset would be better utilized in a more technical role, for which I have recently begun training. For now, this is a great reward for my work throughout this program. I will be considering a Masters in Computer Science with an AI specialization, as I have found machine learning and AI courses particularly fascinating. I hope to continue at this job or another tech-related role throughout the completion of a master's degree and eventually move into a more ML/AI-focused role.  

The artifact I will be presenting over the next few pages in an Android inventory app which showcases my skills in collaborating in a team environment, communicating with stakeholders, data structures and algorithms, databases, and security. We explore how this is true for each of these skill areas on the following page.
